A common method of summarizing data is
a histogram that the data is numerical.
So basically, a histogram, you divide
the range of values in your data into 5 to 15 groups or bins.
Usually they have equal width,
and you simply count how many observations in each bin, and
draw a nice column or a bar graph to summarize where the data is.
And Excel in previous versions through Excel 2016 did histograms,
but they really didn't look that great.
But in Excel 2016, they look fantastic.
So let's look at a sample of IQs of, let's say,
students at a high school.
We've got about 1,000 kids there.
And we want to summarize the IQs in a histogram.
Well, what you have to decide is basically,
how many bins you want and basically a lower limit,
sort of to cut off everybody below that limit in the first bin, and
everybody above the upper limit in the last bin.
So for IQs, we know something about the value of IQs from just our
worldly experience.
We're gonna put everybody who is 55 or
below in the lowest bin, everybody who is 145 or over in the upper bin.
And we like to have nice round bins, we don't want
bins like 8.55 in width, so we'll have a bin width of 10.
So how do we create a histogram in Excel?
We first select the data.
So we'll start with the first IQ,
Control+Shift+down arrow goes down to the bottom.
Then we'll do Insert.
Okay, and then right here, this is new to 2016,
there's the histogram option, and so there we have a histogram.
This one we don't need.
Okay, so now what we wanna do,
we have these ugly bin boundaries, we wanna switch that.
So we go right click, Format Axis.
Okay, now Bin Width we said we want that to be 10.
Okay, Overflow Bin would be the upper one.
We want that to be 145, we've got that.
Underflow Bin 55, okay.
And then basically, we've got our histogram, so we can label this IQs.
Okay, now what that tells us is roughly,
how many of the students here have IQs in each range?
So our first bin is below 55 and above 145.
It doesn't appear that there are any, but
the most frequently occurring IQ range is 95 to 105, which makes
sense cuz you know the average IQ Is around 100, it's supposed to be 100.
And we can also see this IQ graph is what we call, or
histogram is called symmetric,
because it looks sort of the same to the left and right of the peak here.
Go one bar to the left, one bar to the right,
the heights are pretty much the same.
Two bars to the left, two bars to the right,
the heights are pretty much the same, etc.
And in our next video,
we'll explore more the most common shapes of histograms.