Now that we've installed the Analysis Toolpak, or
the data analysis add-in, let's use it to analyze monthly
returns in the 1990s on GM and Cisco.
There are some other stocks here, but we'll just focus on GM and
Cisco here.
Okay, so we go data, data analysis,
which we now see cuz we installed it.
And then there's plenty of options here but what we really care about
is Descriptive Statistics, which is right here.
We'll be using a bunch more of these things later in the course, okay, so
now we gotta fill in this dialog box.
So the Input Range is our data and I'd like to include the labels, so
I'll start here with GM.
I do Ctrl+Shift+Right Arrow to go to the right, down right go to
the bottom, that picks off my datam, the data is in columns.
Output range is the upper left hand corner of where I want excel to put
its statistics, I can just say right here.
Let's say, I6, then you have to check summary statistics or
you won't get any, so you click okay.
You'll get summary statistics,
okay, now we might make that a little bit bigger.
Bold face it, okay.
So now what we want to do is really compare GM and
Cisco on three dimensions.
Remember we said, typical value.
Now, question would be mean or median or mode here.
Okay, so the mean is right here.
So, GM average about 1% a month returns, CSCO about 5.5% and
media which you know, half the data is below it, half the data is above
it, GM's median was actually slightly negative.
Cisco's median was 5% which is fairly positive.
There is no mode, remember that mode is most frequently occurring value.
Again, let me highlight basically, let's say in yellow, what we use for
typical value.
So there's no mode for GM and the reason for
that is because no, return on GM occurred more than once.
And for CISCO the most recurring value is 5.1% we dont
use that too much.
But the question is, for
typical value should I use the Mean or the Median.
And it depends on Skewness as it turns out.
If you have lots of Skewness and
there's a measure of Skewness on the output.
There's a skewness value here, okay.
And we'll define what we mean by lots of skewness in a minute, okay.
If have lots of skewness and
basically that generally means that skewness measure
if it's greater than +1 it means it's very positive we skew the data.
Or the skewness is less than minus one.
If you have a lot of skewness,
we'll have a great example of this in a minute,
you should use the median.
Because basically what happens is the extreme values basically distort
the typical value.
If you look at income that's a very good example where there's a lot of
skewness.
If somebody has an income of a hundred million dollars a year in
a small town, they would greatly raise the mean.
We'll see example of this in a minute but
they really wouldn't do much to the median and
there $100 million a year is not really the typical person, okay.
So we look here we don't have much skewness we would use the mean for
typical value, So
Cisco does better than GM typically, higher mean.
Now what about spread about the mean,
which doc has more spread about the mean?
Well, we learned a couple of videos ago you look at the standard
deviation and the variance.
And so the standard deviation is what we usually like to use,
it's the square root the variance.
You really need the variance to get to the standard deviation,
but once you have the standard deviation that's enough.
So, standard deviation on Cisco is 12.2% on the monthly returns,
on GM it's about 9%, so there's more spread about the mean for Cisco.
And then there's not much skewness,
these numbers are very close to zero, again greater and
plus one is possibly skew, minus one is negatively skewed.
So basically not much skewness and
we saw that in the histograms that we had for GM and sysco.
Fairly symmetric data sets.
Now a more powerful example of why you don't always want to use
the mean for
typical value, though people like to do this is based on real situation.
Let’s talk about 1984 and this really happen, if you are basketball
fan you may think about his and even if you are not a U-S
citizen I think the person I’m talking about you heard of.
Because he was one of the most recognizable people in the world,
okay so let’s look at 1984 University of North Carolina,
a great school.
Geography majors had the highest average salary, this is true.
A friend of mine told me, at the University of North Carolina, okay.
So should everybody have wanted to be a geography major?
So let's suppose there were 15 geography majors,
who average $40,000 who got made $40,000, and one made $1 million.
This isn't that far from the truth.
Now if you look at the median, you know that's gonna be the midpoint
between the eighth and ninth largest salary, that's gonna be 40,000.
That's a much better measure of the typical income of the geography
major than if I average these numbers, I mean we'll skip ahead.
There's a function average which we'll learn about later, but
I think most of you know that one.
What was the average salary for geography majors?
$100,000 and it's indeed true the highest average salary for
1984 geography majors at UNC.
The highest starting salary majors in any
academic major at UNC was geography majors.
So should everybody have been a geography major?
But the median salary was surely higher for let's say,
accounting mayors or computer science mayors.
What was going on?
Michael Jordan was a geography mayor.
As we know we can't all be like Mike,
I mean that's probably a slogan.
Basically we should've been looked at the mean salary of geography
majors, we should've the mediator, the typical value.
Basically here is a great example,
there would be a lot of scewness against skipping ahead of it.
There is an Excel function that measures skewness and
if you would look at the skewness of this dataset,
you get a skewness of four which is much bigger than +1.
So our roll would tell you to use the median income to measure
basically atypical value for UNC Geography Majors income,
rather than the mean.
Now in the next video will show how you can take the mean for
a data set and the standard deviation, put them together and try
to understand the typical range for a data set, which is very important.
And also spot unusual data points know as highlighters.