Next, let's talk about the 80/20 Rule or the Pareto principle.
The 80/20 Rule means that in any situation 20% of the inputs or
activities are responsible for 80% of the outcomes or results.
This is known as the Pareto principle because a man named Pareto
noticed that 80% wealth was concentrated in 20% of
the population.
Years later another researcher saw the same phenomenon in quality
issues where 80% of problems could be traced back to 20% of defects.
Other common examples 80% of revenues are generated by 20% of
customers.
80% of our quality issues occur with 20% of products.
20% of employee are responsible for 80% of sick days.
This chart illustrates this principle visually.
This is real data that I deal with every day.
In this case, each input on the x axis is an assessment and
the output on the y axis is the number of people taking
that assessment over the last year.
I ordered the results such that assessments with the highest volumes
are to the left, and those with lower volumes are to the right.
As you can see,
most of the data clusters to the left of these charts.
In fact, if you do the math, it turns out that 77% of
the people taking assessments are taking one of 20.
So even though we have just a little bit more than 100 assessments,
the vast majority of people are taking one of the top 20.
This pattern repeats across all types of data, organizations, and
circumstances.
Why is this important?
While the general principle reinforces the idea that things
are not evenly distributed.
Not everything contributes equally to the outcome.
Is the relationship always 20, 80/20, no.
But the point is that most of something is concentrated
in a few areas.
In other words understanding where your data is congregated can help
you prioritized action, so you're spending time where it matters most.
A prayer chart will help you do this.
It is a bar graph in which the values are plotted
in decreasing order of relative frequency from left to right.
Pareto charts are extremely useful for
analyzing what problems need attention first.
A line graph showing the cumulative relative frequency
is usually super imposed on the bar graph because the values of
the statistical variables are placed in order of relative frequency.
The graph clearly reveals which factors have the greatest impact and
where attention is likely to have the greatest benefit.