So in this video we'll show you how to create a pirato chart using a new
Excel 2016 capability which illustrates the fact that
a small percentage of our products generate most of our revenue.
So I've listed a bunch of products here, how many do I have?
I think a hundred.
They don't have to be in any order, notice the first product
doesn't make much money but the second product does and
basically we would like to have a Pareto chart.
So all we have to do is select our data, okay, go insert, and
where we found the box and whisker plot, and basically the histogram.
There's the Pareto chart, the lines and the bars.
There is a Pareto chart.
So you can see we've listed the product sales in descending order.
Product two was our best product, sold the most.
And then basically product 64, etc.
And then this red bar, red line here,
gives the percentage of our sales by the products reading left to right.
So you can see they get 80% basically of your basically,
your revenue,
you would follow the 80% over the year until the red line hits 80%.
Noticed that the red line gets flatter.
Why is that?
The red curve.
Because basically every time
you increase the x-axis by one you're adding a new product.
The y axis the slope is basically based on what you're adding in
revenue.
And you can see that basically, when you're adding later products,
you're adding less in revenue, so the curve gets flat.
Notice when you get down here, you're not adding much percentage
to the coverage of sales but at the beginning you're adding a lot there.
And it turns out in this example 36 products would basically
give you 80% in your revenues so wasn't quite a Pareto
principle that 20 out of 100 generated 80% as your revenue.
But in real data I have seen it really does hold that 20% of your
products will usually generate 80% of your revenue or
profit, or 20% of your customers generate 80% of your profit.
Now in the next video we'll show you how to create
a Pareto Chart that basically you would use in quality control
to sort of summarize complaints about a restaurant.
And you'll see you can't quite use the Pareto capability right off
the bat that we've used here because the data is qualitative and
it's not listed numerically.