For any data set it's really important to understand
the normal range of variation.
The great American statistician, Edward Demings,
who helped Japan after World War II, come back from
their defeat to become a manufacturing power, really harped
on the importance of understanding normal variation with a data set.
So we're gonna use the rule of thumb here to understand normal variation
for a data set.
And basically the rule of thumb says in most data sets 95% of your data
is within two standard deviations of the mean.
And the 95% comes from the normal random variable,
you'll see why in module three.
Okay, and anything more than two standard deviations from the mean
is called an outlier or unusual data point.
And we'll highlight the outliers for Cisco, we'll focus on Cisco here.
Okay, so basically let's find the range of normal variation.
I'll actually give you sports example on this too, but
it's really important.
We'll give an example on sports and
IQs cuz this is such an important topic.
So for Cisco what is normal variation?
Okay, you would take the mean for
Cisco right there minus two times the standard deviation.
That's about -19%.
Then you would take the mean plus two standard deviations.
So normal variation for Cisco and
it's almost always a wider range than people think.
Normal variation for Cisco monthly return on stock in
the 1990s was -19% to 30%, okay.
And so if you saw a month for Cisco went up 25%,
well that's fairly typical.
Down 15% fairly typical.
Up 35%, not so typical.
So, another example, let's look at IQs which we've discussed.
So the mean for IQs, I guess it doesn't want to capitalize
is 100 and the standard deviation is 15.
So if we go within two standard deviations to the mean,
two standard deviations below that would be 100 minus 30, 70 and
two standard deviations above 130.
70 to 130 should have 95% of all people's IQs.
And that's exactly true, cuz IQs are symmetric.
And then an outlier would be an IQ above 130 or below 70.
Now, one other example on this.
Let's take football point spreads, which is a prediction by Las Vegas
of how many points a team will win a football game, the pro football.
The mean for a football game would be the Las Vegas
prediction that's pretty close.
Now every year if you take the standard deviation of the scores of
football games about the point spread you get about 14 points.
So if you look at a football game, like last year's Superbowl,
Carolina Panthers were favored by, let's say 5.
The Las Vegas people thought they'd win by 5.
So if you go double that standard deviation in either direction,
28 points in either direction, what would be a normal outcome for
that football game?
Carolina winning by 28, more than 5, 33.
They were playing Denver, who actually won.
Go 28 points below that, you go Denver by 23,
and that would be a normal range of variation.
Now Denver won, and that was considered a big upset.
But they didn't win by 23, so that was not an outlier.
So to conclude this video, let's show you how to highlight outliers.
Notice we have the lower limit here and we have the upper limit here.
So we wanna highlight stuff.
In Excel, there's a feature called conditional formatting which we're
not gonna do in total detail but
we can do highlight cells greater than a value or less than a value.
So if you would say anything that's greater than this value, we
can highlight in one color anything that's less than its value and
another color and that highlights our outlier.
So we first select our data,
control shift down arrow, we go home, conditional formatting.
And so we're gonna go highlight cells, we're gonna do greater than,
and I can just point I think to that value there.
We can make that red.
So everything above 29% is red.
And I can do home, conditional formatting, top-bottom rules,
sorry, highlight cells, less than okay, and
then I can point to this number here.
I should probably change the color, let's say green, doesn't matter.
So then I can see all the really good months were highlighted in red
that were outliers, that were unusual, and
all the bad months are highlighted in green.
There's one right there.
Okay, now in our next video we're gonna learn different ways to get
these statistics we got with the analysis tool pack.
There are Excel functions that will help you get these statistics, and
we're gonna show you how to do that in the next video.