Let's take a look at a different type of mean, the geometric mean.
The geometric mean is not a simple average.
It is the nth root of the product of n numbers.
That means you multiply your values and then you take the nth root,
where n is the number of values you just multiplied.
I know this seems weird and you're probably wondering why you need
a different type of mean but it is a great, it is really, really great
when you're comparing two variables with very different properties.
For example, the geometric mean can give you a meaningful
average to compare companies, that are each rated from 0 to 5 for
the compensation packages in a scale of 0 to 100 for
their citizenship efforts.
If you took a simple average of those values,
you would be over-weighting the citizenship rating.
So, imagine you want to know which company is better then another in
terms of their compensation and citizenship ratings.
Company A rated a three for compensation and 75 for
citizenship while company B has been rated four and 60 respectively.
If you took the simple average of those two ratings you would find
that the company A had higher average at 39 for
company B added an average of 32.
However, citizenship ratings are being overweighted in
the calculation because the range of values is so
dramatically different than those for compensation.
If you calculate a geometric mean,
will you still see that company A has a higher overall rating?
To do this, we multiply the two values and take the, in this case,
square root for company A, we get a geometric mean of 15.
For company B, a geometric mean of 15.49.
A difference.
Another great use of a geometric mean is to calculate your annual
rate of return on an investment.Imagine that
you invest in a stock that increased by 10% in year one, 15% in year two.
20% in year three and then lost 10% in year four.
What would be your average annual return?
You can't simply take the average 8.75 because
the success of your percentage increases and losses are based on
the principle plus the interest earned the previous year.
So we would take the geometric mean.
To do that, we have to note a couple of things about how you calculate
the geometric mean for percentages.
First this calculation assumes a positive so
negative percentages are subtracted from 1.
And positive percentages are added to one.
As you can see,
if you do the math in this case, your annual return rate is
actually slightly less than what a simple average would have reported.