So we've been using the analysis tool backer, the data analysis add
in that you see here to get these descriptive statistics.
But Excel has built in many great statistical functions that you can
use to basically get the same information.
So I'd like to show you how these functions works,
because you may prefer them.
Now, if we're going to refer to data often,
it often helps to name the data.
So, in other words, here is our Cisco data right here.
So if I want to color that right there,
wouldn't it be nice if I could just name that?
And then I don't have to keep pointing to it,
I could actually just type the name of the data in there.
There is a shortcut using the F3 key to paste the range name in.
So, if I select this range of my data, and
I can go to this name box here and I can type let's say, Cisco
right there and hit enter, now I have named that data Cisco.
So if I go to that name box here and
I type Click on Cisco, it highlights the data.
So basically, I could of course point to this data all the time, but
if I'm somewhere else in the workbook,
then basically it'll be nice to just use the name, and
the F3 key let's you paste a name in a formula.
And this is very useful.
So let's really duplicate with Excel functions what we got
from the analysis tool pack.
Okay, so how would I get the mean for Cisco?
I could use average as the function, now I could
actually just type the word Cisco, I mean Excel would autocomplete that.
It understands the range frame so I can use that F3 trick or
just point to the data.
But I'll average Cisco there, okay, now this is a null thing,
Excel thinks it's a date.
Okay, so I'm gonna format all these things to be a couple of decimal
points, Ctrl+1 brings up Format Cells, and
I can make these all be let's say, four decimal points.
Okay, so you can see that matches exactly what I have there.
Now a neat feature starting Excel 2013 is I can show you the formulas
with formula text.
If I click FORMULATEXT you're basically gonna
see the formula there, okay.
Now what about the median,
there is a function called MEDIAN that gives you the median.
And I can hit F3 now, and the F3 key, see, there's Cisco.
I can paste that name in there, see it highlights the data in blue,
and I can just copy that formula text down here.
Now the mode.
There are bunch of mode function cuz mode is most frequently
occurring value, there could be more than one mode.
I don't want to get into that or readings and the data
analysis could talk about that, but let's just use the mode function.
So there's a couple of them here it's just
not worth the complications.
But I'd say mode and basically I should, mode of Cisco or
I can use that F3 track, and see that matches what we've got here.
Standard deviation, the function is stdev, this time I'll use F3,
paste in Cisco, and I'm not sure which is easier, F3 or typing it.
That's 12.2%, and the variants use VAR function, I'll type Cisco.
That matches what we have here.
Now I'll talk about kurtosis briefly, it's not too important.
Sounds like a fatal disease, she has kurtosis,
she has three months to live.
But skewness, there's a function skew, and
I'll do Cisco and that matches the skewness.
By the way, if you type in a function in Excel,
go to the Function wizard and you wanna know more,
you can click on help, and you can see the ugly skewness formula.
But I don't think we really need to know it,
there is the ugly skewness formula.
We just need to know what it does, okay.
So then I could do formula text again here.
And kurtosis basically measures The shape of the histogram,
whether it looks like a bell curve, and when it's near 0.
The kurtosis means that it looks like a bell curve,
when it's not near zero, it doesn't look like a bell curve.
This can be important when you're looking at stock returns,
to see if they have what's called fat tails.
They are spread out more than the bell curve, but
just to show you there is a function for this.
Although, nothing that we're gonna give you for
homework or exams will involve this.
But basically you should know these functions available here of enhanced
Kurt Jock, that are jock at, that would be important.
Okay, now we've got a couple more functions we wanna show you here,
before we go on to the next video which we'll deal with some more
Excel statistical functions in a different file.
But often we wanna know percent dollars of a dataset so
the ninetieth percent on Cisco, what does that mean?
That means 9 out of 10 months below that, 1 in 10 above that.
The 10th percent all means 1 and 10 below, 9 and 10 above.
So there's a couple of functions that do this.
So I type in percent, there's a PERCENTILE.EXC and PERCENTILE.INC.
Now, the book explains the difference between these
it's pretty complicated.
But the .exe I think is considered a better one.
Microsoft added this I think in 2015.
So we'll use that.
And so then I would basically type in the range name, which is CSCO,
and that I want the 90th percentile.
I type in 0.9, so roughly this should be a pretty
good return of nine out of ten months or worse.
And one out of ten months or above that.
21% return, one out of ten months roughly CISCO does better than
20.6%, nine out of ten months CISCO does worst than 20.6%.
Now, sometimes we wanna know where our data point ranks in a data set,
basically represented.
I look at row 1 53, no reason but it was a bad month.
Cisco loss 14%, so the question is where does that row rank?
Probably pretty badly as a percentile, so
there is a percent rank function, okay not to be confused with
percentile function let me just show you again the formula text there.
Okay, so we wanna know where August 1998 ranked,
I can do percent rank, PERCENTRANK.EXC( I prefer.
Okay, now the array is again Cisco.
And F 153 was the value.
The significance has no significance.
It's how many decimal points you want, really not very important.
Okay, so
basically 4.5% of the months roughly were worse than August 1998.
So it was indeed a bad month.
Now people sometimes get confused by percentile, percent, and rank.
So basically what you should know is percentile returns
a value from the dataset, like a stock return.
Percent rank, returns in a sense a probability.
Or it serves a four and a half percent chance that basically
a month would be worse than that, minus 14 percent.
But the percentile returns a value of the data set which I can make
a percentage if I do Ctrl+1, I can make that into a percentage.
Now, in the next video we are going to show you a couple of more
Excel functions that can be very useful to you when you analyze data.