Okay, let's suppose you're looking at stock returns, rates of growth or
basically growth in revenues for a company.
So let's look at two stocks here.
The first stock every year went up 5%.
The second stock it went down 50%, up 70%, down 50% up 70%.
Which of these stocks is better?
Well, you might look at the average return.
So you might take the average here, it's gonna be obviously 5%.
So every year, your money grows by 5%.
Now you look at the second stock just topping that average across,
the average return is higher than 10%.
So it looks like Stock 2 is better, but the answer is it's not.
Okay, cause the volatility in Stock 2 will eventually kill you.
If you're in Stock 1, your money will always grow.
But in Stock 2, your money will decline.
So what would happen if you start with a dollar in Stock 2.
Well, the first year you might lose 50%, so you'd be down to $0.50.
Then you'd grow by 70%, you'd have 1.7 times what you had here, okay.
Then you'd lose 50%, so you would end up here and
then you would grow by 70% and you'd end up here.
That be less money than what you started with.
If you follow this pattern in four years,
even though your average return is 10%, you'd have less money.
So you don't wanna say Stock 2 is better.
So here's where we need the concept of geometric mean,
which leads to CAGRs or compound annual growth rate.
So the geometric mean of n numbers is the nth root
of the product of those numbers.
So if I took one, two and four, you multiply those, you get eight.
The cube root of 8 is 2 cuz 2 times 2 times 2 is 8.
Now there's a formula or a function in Excel,
GEOMEAN which would give you 2 there.
Okay, now so how do you sort of get sort of a typical
annual growth rate for a stock or revenue growth for
a corporation, given numbers like these.
Okay, and that's called the CAGR, not beer, but
compound annual growth rate.
But you ask anybody who's been to an MBA program about CAGR,
they may talk about beer, but
they'll also talk about compound annual growth rate.
Okay, so what I did is I took one plus the returns, 1.05, etc.
One plus the minus 0.5 is 0.5, 1.7 is the one plus this, etc.
Then you take the geometric mean to get the CAGR,
basically our compound annual growth rate.
Basically for each stock and you subtract one.
So you take geometric mean of these four
guys minus one, that's gonna come out to 5%.
It should show you that formula.
We'll widen the column by double-clicking.
Now if I copy that across,
you'll see the second stock has a negative CAGR, negative 8%.
So Stock 2 has a CAGR of minus 8% per year.
Okay, and that makes sense because we saw that if you invest in Stock
2, you would decline over time.
And basically, if you would take one plus this CAGR to the fourth power,
you'd get this $0.72.
If I would take one plus, that's what I mean,
it's a compound annual growth rate.
One plus that, carat over the six raises to the fourth power.
You see those two are exactly the same there.
Okay, that's $0.72 you'd have in four years,
if you projected the CAGR four years, you'd have $0.72.
So these CAGRs are really important and
the reason they're important again is the volatility.
In the long run, volatility will cause you to eventually lose money
if the means are equal.
Okay, if you've got two data sets where the means are equal,
the one with the volatility is gonna have the lower compound
annual growth rate.
Now in the next lesson, we're gonna start talking about box plots,
which is new to Excel 2016, beautiful box plots.
They give you a fantastic way to quickly compare data sets and
understand the concepts we've been talking about.
Central location spread about the mean and skewness.