In this video, we're gonna show you how to create an exciting Treemap
chart to summarize hierarchical data.
So, suppose you own an independent bookstore, and basically,
in column A you have sort of the major types of books you sell,
arts and photography, nonfiction.
You may sell some magazine,
science fiction and fantasy which some people like.
And then you have sub genre.
So, basically, for
children's book, you may have baby books aged three through five.
And there is no sub genre for
baby books before aged three through five.
We have first readers, ABCs and for
those parents who really wanna get their kids going,
we have Tolstoy for Tots that you can learn all about War and
Peace and Anna Karenina, the two greatest novels ever written.
So we have the revenue for each of these categories.
We wanna summarize, basically,
which of our books are selling a lot, okay?
Cuz these numbers just don't tell us much.
A chart is always a better way to summarize data if
you can come up with the right chart.
So, basically, if I just select this data, and
all I have to do is do Insert.
And then, what's new here is right here.
There's Treemap and Sunburst hierarchy chart.
So, let's do Treemap right here.
Now, we wanna make this bigger.
But basically, the areas are proportional to the numbers that we
have in the last column.
Okay, so we have the children's books,
we've got basically the 1st Readers, ABCs, Tolstoy for Tots, we can see
1st Readers was the best seller from the children's books there.
We can see that up here, the 24,000, and
if you hover over a number here, it should show you, basically,
right there, see there you can see the numerical value there.
And we can change the way these labels look in a minute.
Now, the problem is, what size should you make this chart?
So, I mean, you don't wanna make it too big or
basically, you couldn't print it or see all of it.
But if you make it bigger, you're gonna get more detail.
So, you just have to experiment with what size you want this thing to be.
But the main lesson we learned here is the orange,
the children's book, are the biggest percentage of our sales.
We don't sell much science fiction and fantasy.
We might use this reallocate our shelf space.
Then, are magazines here, we can see are in green.
But, basically, this is a really nice way to summarize for
a company that sells stuff what, basically,
are the products that you're selling.
Now if I right click in a blank space here and
do Format Data Series, I can change this to say banner.
So now, the labels look a little bit different which I think looks
a little bit better.
So that Treemap chart is one great way to summarize hierarchical data.
In the next video, we'll see a Sunburst chart which
basically can also be used to summarize hierarchical data.
See the one thing here that's the problem is,
I didn't see the breakdown for the age three through five kids.
Okay, and basically,
we'll see in the Sunburst chart that would show up.