Hi, since our course is called Essential Statistics for
Data Analysis Using Excel,
we should probably start off talking about what we mean by data.
So data is made up of individuals and variables.
Okay, so what do we mean by individuals?
Individuals are the objects described by the data set.
Individuals might be people, stocks, cities, etc.
So do we mean by a variable?
A variable is a characteristic of an individual and
here are some examples.
So the individual might be a person.
So what variables might you associate with a person?
Well, their height, their weight, their IQ, the number of siblings,
perhaps their family income.
If the individual is a city,
what are some variables you might associate with a city?
The population of the city, the area of the city,
the total income of individuals in the city.
If the individual is a stock,
what variable might you associate with a stock?
Well, there are many, but you might look at the price of the stock
during each day in the year 2020, or whatever year you're interested in.
If your individual is a car,
there are many variables you might associate with a car.
The color of the car, the horsepower of the car.
You might use the miles per gallon.
There are just so many.
Okay, so the next thing we wanna talk about are variables, okay?
And there are two types of variables, categorical or numerical.
Okay, so a numerical or
sometimes a quantitative variable takes a numerical value.
A numerical value can be a mistake.
A numerical variable can be discrete or continuous.
A discrete variable assumes distinct values,
whereas continuous variable can assume any value within a range.
Often a discrete variable assumes an integer value.
Here are some examples.
If we look at the market share for a cholesterol drug,
that's a continuous variable, why?
Cuz you can take on any value between zero and
one, any value in an interval.
Profit margin for a product is continuous.
Again, it can take on any value between zero and one.
The number of children in a family is discrete.
You could have zero children in a family, one child, two child,
I don't know, the Guinness Book of World Records may be 25 children.
The number of days a child misses of school in a year is discrete.
They can miss zero days hopefully, one day, two days.
If there's 180 days of school I suppose they can miss 180 days.
I hope they're not that sick.
Height and weight are continuous.
Now you might think, if you're a man,
that your height might be 5 foot 10, 5 foot 11 or 6 feet.
But your height could be sort of any number, let's say between 2 feet and
8 feet.
So basically your height, if you say you're 6 feet tall,
it may mean you're 72.0000 inches.
The annual return on a stock is continuous.
The worst thing that could happen to a stock, it loses all its value,
you would have a minus 100% return during a year.
But there is no upper limit on what the return on the stock could be.
Now, we also wanna talk about non-numerical or
quantitative variables called categorical variables.
Also, the term used is qualitative variables.
And we classify a variable into one of several categories.
So a categorical variable can be nominal or ordinal.
For a nominal variable,
the categories cannot be assigned a numerical value.
For ordinal data, the categories can be sorted in a logical fashion.
So here are some examples of categorical variables.
The color of a car is nominal.
I mean, I don't think there's any ordering where you can order a green
car over a red car over a silver car.
The age group of a person in the US, Generation X, Millenial,
Baby Boomers common classifications, that's ordinal.
Cuz basically based on your birth date,
you're classified in one of these groups.
If you're older or you were born in 1946-1964, you're a Baby Boomer.
The Gen X is 65-80 and the Millenials, in the 80s and 90s.
So there is a numerical order that can be associated there.
Basically, we would have an ordinal categorical variable.
Your party affiliation United States, Republican, Democrat,
Libertarian or Independent, that's nominal.
I don't think that you can place a numerical order on that.
Rating a teacher,
which is controversial in the US as excellent, good, average or poor.
Now that is ordinal because basically you might base those
ratings on teacher evaluations, you might say a seven or
a six is excellent, a five or four is good, etc.
In our next video, we'll talk about how we can summarize quantitative or
numerical data using histograms.