Hierarchical data sets are perfect when
there are natural groupings or layers
within the data. Organizational
structures are classic examples of
hierarchical data sets,
other examples include product models,
inventory lists, it goes on. Essentially
hierarchical data uses a one-to-many
relationship for data elements. It uses a
structure that links desparate elements
to one owner or parent. In hierarchical
data each child record has only one
parent but each parent record can have
one or more children. In this example you
can see that vehicles can be divided
into children called cars and trucks
within a car you might have different
types Toyota and Ford, and within that a
specific version of a Toyota car and a
specific version of a Toyota truck.
Of course this relationship can be
depicted in a slightly different way.
Here the ultimate parent is still
vehicle but the children are now the
different types of vehicles that you
could have, Ford and Toyota
rather than truck and car as was in the
previous example. Children of Ford and Toyota
are now truck and car and their
children are focus & f-150. Looking at
these relationships in a table can be
overwhelming, providing visual structure
to hierarchical data can help with
interpretation within Excel you have two
very cool choices and how to display
hierarchical data, Tree maps or Sunburst charts
you might wonder when should use
one over the other. It shouldn't surprise
you to know that the answer lies in what
you want to convey by creating the
visualization. Tree maps like you see
here are by their rectangular nature are
better suited for comparison among
hierarchical levels, a tree map makes it
easy to spot patterns such as which
organizations spent the most money on HR,
physical resources, or other functions
and within each of those spending
categories more specifically where the
money was spent. Tree maps display
categories by color with each sub branch
being a different color. The size of the
rectangle represents a category
corresponding with its importance in the
hierarchical structure, in other words
how much is below it in the hierarchy.
Tree maps are good for comparing proportions within
the hierarchy, but they are not good at
showing hierarchical levels for that you
need a Sunburst chart. In Sunburst charts
each level of the hierarchy is
represented by one ring with the
innermost ring being the top hierarchy.
A Sunburst chart without any hierarchical
data has only one level of category is
essentially a donut chart, however a
Sunburst chart with multiple levels of
categories shows how the outer rings
relate to the inner rings. You can use
Sunburst charts to emphasize a single
slice allowing you to dig deeper into
different areas of the hierarchy of
interest, for example a sales report may
want to highlight a specific month or
business unit. Sunburst charts show the
full picture of the hierarchy
and illustrate the different depths of the
hierarchical groups whereas a tree map
loses the categories in the middle. As a
result Sunburst charts are most
effective at showing how one ring is
broken into its contributing pieces,
while Tree maps are ideal for comparing
relative sizes within each level of the hierarchy.