So now that we know how to create histograms, we want to learn how to
basically create numerical measures that can summarize the data set.
So what are the three dimensions on which we might want to summarize
a data set.
A typical value, what's a typical value for a data set?
Spread about the typical value, how spread out is the data?
Is it concentrated towards the typical value, or
does it really very a lot?
And then skewness which we talked about, positively skewed,
negatively skewed or symmetric.
So lets deuce a brief demo without really using excel function or
excel capabilities of what we mean by calculating a typical values,
spread about the typical value Skewness.
The formula's complex so we won't worry about that.
But here we have a simple data set.
We've got the numbers, 1, 3 and 5.
And so for a typical value, we have sort of two measurers.
We have the average, which you know what that is,
you add up the numbers.
And divide by how many?
So the average here if I have one, three and
five, you add those up you get nine.
You divide by three, you get three, okay.
Then we sometimes use the median, as you'll see later, for
a typical value.
The median is sort of the man in the middle,
the data point in the middle.
Now that can be a lot tricky.
So if have one three and five ordered from smallest to largest
three is in the middle, there is one data point below it and
one above it, so the median would be three.
Okay but let's look at the second data set the are four data points so
which one is in the middle?
The second one has 1 data point below it and
the second data point is 2 above it so it's not in the middle.
The third data point has 1 data point above it, 2 below it so
it's not in the middle.
So we have an even number data points,
basically we average the two middle ones.
Okay so for set 2, the median is 3.5.
Now there's a third measure, the mode, the most frequently occurring
value, but that's pretty easy to do, we usually use Excel for that.
And that's really not usually what we use to summarize the data set.
Okay, now what about spread about the mean this is
incredibly important.
So, basically spread about the mean, the measure we usually use,
measures we usually use are variance of standard deviation.
So, variances average square deviation from the mean,
if we use XBAR for the mean and Xi for the observation, we take every
data point minus the mean squared, add those up, and divide.
You would think, you would divide by the number of data points, but
you divide by one less.
That's a bit complicated to explain but
we'll probably address that in module four, okay.
But why do you square the deviations from the mean,
why not just add them up?
Well you can show if you're good at algebra for any data set if you take
every data point minus the mean and add them up You'll always get zero.
You have to square the deviations from the mean so that basically
the positive and negative deviations don't cancel out, and
then the standard deviation is the square root of the variance.
So for the data set 1, 3, and 5, let's go through the calculations.
Let's get the variance, so
you would take every data point, the mean is 3, we know that.
So you take the first data point minus the mean, caret mean squared,
then you take the second data point.
Minus the mean squared.
Then you take the third data point, 5 minus the mean squared,
notice those all be positive to be square -2 or when you,
that should be -3 there, sorry.
Now that's the sum of the squared deviations, you divide that by 2.
3-1 cuz there is three data points.
Okay, see a -2 squared that's 4,
3- 3 squared is 0, 5- 3 squared is 4, 4 + 4 / 2.
See if 8/2 which is 4, so there is your variance.
And then the standard deviation would be
the square root of four, which is two.
Now, basically if you know the variance,
you know the standard deviation, so which one do we use more often?
Okay, basically we use the standard deviation
Is used more often as a measure of spread about the typical value.
And the reason for that is,
the standard deviation has the same units as the data.
So if our data is money, it's measured in dollars or euros, I
don't know what a dollar squared is, and that's the units of variance.
But I do know what a dollar is, okay?
So that's why we often use standard deviation
instead of variance as a measure of spread about the mean.
Now, in our next video,
we're going to show you how to install the great analysis tool
pack add into Excel 2016, cuz we can use that to get a lot of
these descriptive statistics that we use to describe a data set.