It is important to understand that not only can your data be
different types.
Remember the categorical qualitative or
numerical quantitative conversation we had earlier?
It also has a scale of measurement associated with it that describes
what the values mean.
This is important because the interpretation of statistical
analysis is based on underlying assumptions about the type of data
and its scale of measurement among other characteristics.
Just because you can run a statistic on some data doesn't mean that
the results will actually make sense.
Further, different visualizations or charts should be used depending on
the scale of measurement and data type.
Data can be nominal, which means that the values associated with that
variable represent identifiers.
These are unranked categorizations.
For example, demographic information, such as gender, race or
ethnicity, color of a car.
Those might be nominal.
Because you can only do statistical analysis on number, not words.
You would have to assign a code to differentiate between genders for
example.
This is what we call a dummy code.
For example, you might characterize women as one and men as two.
Here is an example of when running some statistics, mean for example,
makes no sense.
If you ran a mean on a nominal variable such as gender,
what would 1.25 mean in this context?
Data can be ordinal where values associated with that value represent
rank ordered category.
So that the values have meaning relative to each other such as low,
moderate or high.
But the distance between each category doesn't have any meaning
and may not be equivalent.
Variables can also be interval, where the measurements are on
a numerical scale with an arbitrary zero point that has no meaning.
For example, zero degrees Fahrenheit means cold, not no heat.
Similar to ordinal data,
the distance between the points isn't the same across the scale.
For example, 60 degrees is not twice as warm as 30 degrees.
Finally, the variables can have a ratio scale of measurement.
In this case,
values are on a numerical scale with a meaningful zero point.
$0 means you have no money.
As a result, values can be compared in terms of their interval and
ratio scales.
So 30 times $30 is three times more than $10.