You recall earlier in this module we discussed categorical data, so
now let's return to that.
There are two types of categorical data, nominal and ordinal.
So how can we graphically summarize nominal and
ordinal categorical data?
Let's talk first about nominal categorical data.
So here we have an example.
We have colors of US cars.
Okay, so what are some ways that we could summarize this data?
Well, we're gonna use a pivot table tool to basically find out how many
cars were of each color or the percentage of cars of each color.
We'll do the percentage.
Okay, so now we can select this data here.
And if you're not familiar with pivot tables,
you can follow these steps pretty easily and
the book has a lot of stuff on this.
Insert pivot table, okay, now we'll say the current worksheet,
Okay, now we wanna drag the car type here.
All the colors are there and then value is right here.
It's gonna count how many cars of each type, there were 500 cars here.
Now we can leave it like this to summarize, but maybe we want to know
the percentage of basically cars that were each color.
So then you can right-click on a pivot table.
Right-clicking is very helpful.
Right-click and
we can do Summarize > Show Values as Percentage of Column.
Now we see what percentage of the cars were each color.
Now you may want the car that's most common here,
gray or white to be on top.
You could go here and go Data Sort, you don't have to do that.
We will go largest to smallest.
Now we can do a chart.
So we can do a column chart or we could do a pie chart, okay.
So we want to do a column chart.
Basically go analyze,
you can create a chart from the pivot table by clicking on Analyze.
Okay, and then there's PivotChart and you can pick your type of chart.
Now the column chart is fine for me now.
So I can see the percentage of cars that basically were each color.
It goes grey, white, silver, I think I'm a little low on green.
I think a lot more cars are green than what I have here, but
that's okay.
But you might also wanna summarize this as a pie chart.
So you want to summarize this as a pie chart,
you can always change the type of chart.
You can go right-click, Change Chart Type, okay, so I can go pie chart.
Okay, now that's a pretty boring pie chart cuz it doesn't have any
numbers inside there.
It does have the orange being the black car, etc.
But then if you go up into Excel, you go Format, sorry, Design.
Add Chart Element.
And you can go Data Labels and say More Label Options.
Okay, and now I wanna show the value and
I wanna show the category name in this cell.
Okay, so that would show like the brown cars were 8.3%, etc, and
I think that's a better pie chart.
So that let's you summarize again our nominal categorical data.
But we could have done it with a column chart.
I guess I like the pie chart better.
A lot of statisticians don't like pie charts, but
I think that's fairly nice there to show you what's going on.
In our next video, we'll talk about ordinal data and
how we can summarize that.
Again, the PivotTable will be the key basis of how we do this.