Wayne mentioned skewness earlier, and showed some example.
Let's take a closer look at skewness in terms of mean, median and mode.
Data can be normally distributed, the shape of a normal distribution
is often called bell-shaped, because the data
is distributed symmetrically around the mid-point of the data.
In such distributions, the mean, median,
and mode are clustered together.
Some histograms will show a skewed distribution to the right.
A skewed distribution to the right is said to be positively skewed.
In this kind of distribution, you have a large number of occurrences
on the left side of the chart and
a fewer, in the upper values, on the right side.
So the tail, goes to the right, that's a right skew.
In some histograms, will show a skewed distribution, to the left.
A distribution skewed to the left is said to be negatively skewed.
This kind of distribution has a large number of occurrences,
in the upper values,or the right side, and
a lower, a fewer, values in the lower or the left side.
The distribution of the mode is greater than the mean and
the median.
Now we can also look at some other shapes the distributions can take.
For example some distributions may be bi-modal,
meaning it has two peaks.
This shape makes sure that the data is being affected by two different
sources.
If this shape occurs,
the two sources should be analyzed separately.
In a bi-modal distribution, the min and
median may actually cluster together and you might assume
the distribution is normal if you don't plot the data histogram.
Although measure of central tendency are important in understanding
your data, sometimes visually inspecting it,
can also provide you good insight.
Our uniform distributions shows little variation across your bins or
categories.
This type of distribution could occur because you have combined
the sources of variation in your visualization, or
because you're bins are too small, or too large.
Change the way you are creating your histogram can provide
more information about the actual distribution of your data.
Finally, a distribution might be random,
which means it has no apparent pattern.
It may describe a distribution that has several modes or peaks,
it could occur for the same reasons a uniform distribution does, similar
changes might provide more insight into the distribution of your data.
Finally histograms are valuable tools because they
allow us to better understand the shape or distribution of our data.
In general we want our data to be normally distributed.
When it's not,
it's what we call skewed with data clustered at one end or the other.
If our data are normally distributed we know
that 68% of the data fell within one plus one minus one standard
deviations of the mean 95% within two standard deviations and
99% within three and as I mentioned, most statistics assume normality.
If not normal although we can run the statistic results that we would
get will be uninterpretable or worse lead to the wrong conclusions.