In this video, we're gonna show you a couple more really useful
Excel statistical functions.
So our data set will be scores, and they could be exam scores or
golf scores, you'll see the difference.
If it's a test score, a high score is good.
If it's a golf score, a low score is good.
So here we have the scores, and
we'll name them like we did in the last video because I think that's
fairly useful then we don't have to keep pointing to the data.
So if I select the data there, I can go right here and type the word,
scores.
Okay, so whenever I use the word scores,
it's gonna highlight that data.
Okay.
So suppose I wanna know the second highest score, okay,
we'll exhume their exam scores.
Well, there's a function called the large function.
So we'll type equal large, and I would type in scores so
I could use that F3, comma 2 would be the second large score.
Comma one would be the highest score.
So I'll show you that formula.
Second highest score was 99.
Now what was the second lowest score?
Small function, I'll use that F3 trick.
Cisco, sorry not Cisco, we want scores there.
It's easier to type scores I think here.
Then the second smallest score was an 80.
Okay.
Now we wanna know how to rank things in a data set.
So, guess what that function would be?
Well, something to do with the word rank.
So let's suppose these are exam scores, so the highest exam score,
which is a 100, should have a rank of one.
Now if they're golf scores, 100 is the worst score.
That's what I would get for nine holes, the few times I played
golf and then somebody stole my clubs and that was the end of it.
So if we go here and type in rank, there's a couple of functions.
There's RANK.AVG, RANK.EQ, and RANK.
Now, RANK and RANK.EQ were basically the same.
And I think Microsoft is trying to phase out rank, so
I guess I'll use RANK.EQ.
Now RANK.AVG, will get to what that is in a minute, but I would say
RANK.EQ, okay, now basically the number here we wanna rank this
score, and then the revis or data, which is again gonna be scores. Okay.
Now the important thing comes next.
See descending or ascending,
zero means descending would mean the highest score gets a rank of 1.
And that's what we want here of these sort of exams.
So I put a 0 there.
Now I can copy that down.
I can double-click the, see the formula here looks like this.
And I can copy that down by double-clicking the left mouse.
Double-clicking the left mouse copies a formula or
multiple columns down the matched column to the left.
So if I copy, actually I could copy these both down.
Double-click the left mouse, there we go.
So 100 was the best score, and you can see all those formulas,
not that you really need to see them all.
Now, if they are golf scores, what would we do?
We'd change the 0 to a 1, cuz a 100 should be the worst score.
So I would do RANK, okay, .EQ again.
I think I may have, let's widen this column here.
Okay, sometimes you need to deceive this.
So I wanna do a rank, and I wanna rank that score.
Then I'll type Scores.
Now I want a 1 there for ascending.
Okay, so you can see the 100 was the worst score, ranked 59th,
and then the best score was an 80, which was the worst score here.
Okay, now the thing that's a bit annoying about this but
we can fix it, is then we have ties.
Okay.
So see here two people had a 92.
And they both get a rank of 24.
Now if you think about that, once you get a rank of 24 and
once you get a rank of 25.
But Excel has a way to sort of take care of that.
The RANK.AVG, if you had two people tied for 24th you each
give them a rank of 24 and a half, which I think makes more sense.
So let's do that assuming they're exam scores.
So I can type, RANK.AVG.
We want the number, is right there.
And then I want scores, and then I want 0,
highest score would be ascending.
Highest score is a 1.
Okay, so you can see here these two guys got
a rank of 24.5 like I discussed, because of the ties.
If three tied, I guess it would be 21.33, something like that.
But Excel knows to give those tied ranks.
Which I think it makes more sense to see 24.5 twice than two 24s there.
So that concludes our discussion for
now of typical Excel statistical functions.
Now, in the next video,
we're gonna talk about something that's very important finance.
Geometric means and CAGRs.
Not beer but compound annual growth rate.
When you're analyzing stock returns or
rate of growth of revenue you need to understand geometric mean,
and that's what we'll discuss in the next video.