Now that we know something about
central endencies of the values in our data set.
We can calculate the measures of
variability in other words how spread
apart the data values are, the range is a
simple way to express the distribution of the data.
It's calculated by subtracting the minimum value in the set
from the maximum value.
In this case 10 - 2 which gives us a range of 8.
The variance is a little more complex
depending on whether you have a
population or a sample you can calculate
the population or sample variance,
to calculate either you basically sum the
squared differences between each value
in the data and the mean and then
divide by the number of values in the
data set, if you are calculating the
sample variance however you will
subtract 1 from the number of values in
the data in this case we end up with a
variance of 4.67 if we believe this is a
population of cupcake sales, but I'm
hoping this is just a sample I want to
keep selling cupcakes. So the sample
variance is 5 are you wondering why you
square the differences before summing
them rather than simply just summing the
difference of each value from the mean,
if you don't square them the sum of the
differences will always be 0, if you want
to understand the variation in your data
we must square those differences so we
don't end up with 0 every time.
The standard deviation is a commonly used
metric for measuring a unit of
difference from the mean. Variance is
interesting but because we had to square
the differences it is not very easy to
interpret. So to put this estimate back
on the same scale as the mean you must
take the square root, this is known as
the standard deviation. The square root
of the sample variance is the sample
standard deviation which in this example is 2.24
Finally the standard error gives a measure of
how well a sample represents the population.
it is calculated by dividing the standard deviation by the square root
of the number of values in your data.
In this case, we divide our standard deviation 2.24
by the square root of 15 which is 3.87
to produce a standard error of 0.58.