Let's take a closer look at Descriptive Statistics.
Descriptive Statistics do exactly that,
they describe your data. Specifically its
most common values dispersion and distribution.
Here's a list of values which may represent something like say
hourly sales of cupcakes,
Descriptive Statistics includes measures
of central tendency the most common of
which is the mean or average.
We can calculate the Population Mean
represented by the Greek symbol mu or
the Sample Mean which is represented by x-bar.
The equation for calculating the
population or Sample Mean essentially
says to sum all of the values for that
variable and then divide by the number
of values that we have. In this case we
sum the individual values related to
cupcake sales and obtain a total of 90
and then divide by the number of values
15 to produce a mean of 6. Another way
another measure of central tendency is
to calculate the median which represents
the middle value in the data set.
To find the position of the middle value
in a sorted list add 1 to the length of
the list and divide by 2, here we have 15 values.
We will add 1 to make 16 and divide by 2 to get a result of 8.
This tells us that the median value is the
8th value in the sorted list which is 6
the same as the Mean. The mode is even
easier to calculate, it's simply the most
frequently occurring value in the dataset.
In this case the mode is 6, for a normal distribution of values
the mean, median and mode around the same value.
Now let's look at those same
statistics for a data set that doesn't
have a normal distribution, here's a list
of daily leaflet handout counts again
we'll start with the Sample Mean, we sum
the values in our data and then divide
by the number of values. Here the sum of
our values is 108 and then we divide by
the number of values which is 16 to produce a mean of 6.75.
Now to find the median which represents the
middle value in the data set we add 1 to
the length of the list and divide by 2
in this case we have 16 values, we add 1
which is 17 divided by 2 and we find
that the median would be in the
position 8.5 in a sorted list.
This us that the median value is halfway
between the eighth and ninth values in
that sorted list. In this list those values are 6 and 7.
So the median is halfway between 6 and 7 or 6.5
and the mode the most frequently occurring
value in the data set, in this case the mode is 5.