If you recall in lesson three,
we spent a lot of time comparing monthly returns on GM and Cisco.
We did it with a histogram, we did it with descriptive statistics.
We'll see a box plot really,
I think more easily summarizes the differences and
similarities between the monthly returns on Cisco and GM.
Now, ideally you would like to have the GM returns in one column and
the Cisco returns in another column, like we did in lesson three, but
Microsoft's box plot capabilities doesn't support that at present.
So what I had to do is put the GM returns in one column, and
then the Cisco returns right below that.
So, you have to set things up like that,
not have your data in multiple columns in this situation.
So now we can create a box plot for GM and Cisco with the data set up
like this by going Ctrl+Shift+Right arrow+Down arrow.
Then again, we'll pick up box and whisker plot.
There we go.
And again, from the Design tab, I like to make it black.
Okay, now what do we learn from this here?
Okay, what can we learn about GM and Cisco?
We've already learned a lot of stuff.
That Cisco does better on average.
How do you see that?
Typically than GM, because the upper whisker for Cisco is higher, and
the box for Cisco is higher.
So for typical value,
it's easy to see visually that Cisco did better than GM.
Okay.
Now, basically we had symmetry for both Cisco and GM.
And how can we sort of see that?
Well, basically, the height of the top whisker and
the bottom whisker are roughly the same.
So we don't have much skewness, okay.
If the top whisker was much bigger than the bottom whisker,
you'd have a lot of skewness.
Okay?
If the bottom whisker was much bigger than the top whisker,
you'd have a lot of negative skewness, it spits right out at you.
Now, here's an outlier, you can see that X there is an outlier,
cuz it's below the bottom of the lower whisker.
Now, the third dimension on which we summarize data
is spread about the mean.
And we can see the box for Cisco is taller than the box for GM,
which means there's more spread about the mean.
And the whiskers for Cisco are bigger than the whiskers for
GM, which means, again, there's more spread about the mean for
Cisco than GM.
So, we've seen visually, in a minute or
two, the comparisons between Cisco and GM on the three dimensions we
care about, and I think a picture is much more powerful than numbers.
So a box plot is just fantastic for comparing data sets.
In the next video, we'll show you how you can do box plots
where you have multiple populations, but
multiple variables on each population.