In this video we're gonna talk about some common shapes of histograms
that you should be able to recognize.
And also how you can use histograms to compare different variables.
So let's look at IQs again which we looked at in the last video.
So I have a slightly different data set so I have a histogram of IQs.
And as we mentioned this is what we call a symmetric histogram.
If you look at the most frequently occurring bin, the highest bin,
it looks sorta the same, one bin to the left, one bin to the right, etc.
Then another very common type of histogram is something like
income in a city or a county or even a country.
This does not look symmetric at all.
Here you have the most frequently occurring income in the US,
or based on my fake data.
And then basically this is certainly not symmetric.
You see basically the bars here go much further to the right of
the peak than the left of the peak.
So that's called skewed right or positively skewed.
Because again, the bars go much further to the right of the most
frequently occurring income than they go to the left.
This is very common in economic and financial data.
Now negatively skewed data is not that common to be honest but
here's an example.
The number of days from conception til a woman gives birth, okay.
Now the most common number of days would be roughly 280 days or
nine months.
And I don't know what the Guinness Book of World Records is for
the most days from conception to birth.
I'm sure no woman wants to experience that.
But basically we can see you can't go much over nine months or
the doctor will induce labor.
So maybe suppose the record is 300 days,
the bars would go a little bit to the right of 280.
But they go much further to the left because babies thankfully can be
born healthy at six months, six and a half months.
Maybe some of you watching this video fall into that category.
So there we would have data that's skewed to the left because the bars
go further to the left were negatively skewed.
Now we can also use histograms to compare visually data from different
variables.
So if we look at returns on Cisco and
GM which we'll talk a lot about in these videos here, okay.
We've got histograms for the monthly returns on GM and
Cisco in the 1990s.
And so we've made those histograms basically be set
up with the same set of axes here, okay.
And then basically what can we say from these two histograms?
If we look at typical value for GM and Cisco, what can we say?
Well, Cisco goes further to the right so
the typical return on Cisco in the 1990s
would be basically higher than the typical return on GM.
We can also, as we'll see later, look at that spread about the mean.
You can see the Cisco returns are more spread out.
You have more up here.
You have more down here and less in the middle.
With regards to the skewness,
these both look fairly symmetric as histograms.
So we really can't say much about
the difference in the skewness basically of Cisco and GM returns.
And we'll see this quantified with numerical statistics in a couple of
videos.
So now that we know to create histograms to visually summarize
a dataset.
We want to turn our attention to basically coming up with numerical
measures that summarize a data set.