In the last video in this module,
we're gonna teach you how to do a Pareto chart,
sort of based on customer complaints, okay?
So, let's suppose you own a small restaurant.
And hopefully, you don't get that many complaints, but
here are the complaints.
Small Portions, the wait staff was rude, the taste of the product it
didn't taste very good, and then there's too salty, dirty, etc.
Okay, not happy to hear this if you run a restaurant.
So, we'd like to summarize these complaints with a Pareto chart.
Now, unfortunately, the way that Excel has set up the Pareto chart,
we can't do it right off the bat, but
we can use a pivot table to summarize this data.
We will keep track of how many of each complaint occurred with
a pivot table, and
then we'll have to extract that data from the pivot table because
Excel is not equipped to do Pareto charts from a pivot table.
But this will take a minute or two.
So, okay, all we have to do is select our data,
we'll do insert a pivot table, Excel understands.
Actually, we could've just been anywhere inside that data.
We'll do existing worksheet.
And now, we see how many complaints we had if we drag complaints to
the row, complaints to the value.
We can see, unfortunately, the taste and
the wait staff being rude hurt us.
Now, if I just copy this stuff out, then I can do the Pareto chart.
So, I'll copy that stuff out, Now,
I just have to select this, and now I can do a Pareto chart.
So, I can do insert, just like we did in the last video.
There's Pareto chart, and there it is.
So, I can see the taste and
the wait staff rude were causing me a lot of problems.
Now, this red line is concentrated in the center of the bar.
You couldn't really see that in the last video.
But, for instance, the taste was 160 our of 470, about 34 or 35%.
So, in the middle of that first bar for taste, we have center, or
we really are hitting 35%.
And then, basically, Excel sort of
draws a smooth curve connecting those percentages at the mid points,
but we can see taste and the wait staff rude are our big problems.
So, we would concentrate on taste of our food and
also the hiring process or the training of the wait staff.
We wouldn't worry about the saltiness in our food, and
it looks like people are getting it okay.
Probably because the taste is bad and the wait staff is rude,
there's no problem getting in.
So, on our next module,
we're gonna talk about the wonders of probability,
which is really important for understanding data and statistics.